Add KB troubleshooting filesystem trim error (#784)
longhorn/website: content/kb/troubleshooting-fstrim-error.md

```
or
```
unable to trim filesystem for volume pvc-e381424a-4866-447a-a75c-3096036f7846: cannot find volume pvc-e381424a-4866-447a-a75c-3096036f7846 mount info on host: failed to execute: nsenter [--mount=/host/proc/20357/ns/mnt --net=/host/proc/20357/ns/net fstrim /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/csi/driver.longhorn.io/d2df1133f3440486ddec39370380eeed7a3c71499981d63fc80e43c7ca9f4c9e/globalmount], output , stderr fstrim: /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/csi/driver.longhorn.io/d2df1133f3440486ddec39370380eeed7a3c71499981d63fc80e43c7ca9f4c9e/globalmount: the discard operation is not supported : exit status 1
```

## Details

> This is caused by a problem in old kernel SCSI driver which sets the wrong provisioning mode for the SCSI device that supports

Reviewer: FYI
The legacy way in an old kernel is using write_same, but unfortunately, longhorn tgt doesn't implement the operation ([codes](https://github.com/rancher/tgt/blob/longhorn_oct2019/usr/bs_longhorn.c)). That's why the kernel falls back to `disabled`.

Author: Thanks for the link to the code!

Even though our engine doesn't support write_same, the created block device somehow still advertises that capability:
```
root@phan-v406-dt-pool2-e5bcaaa3-bxtvt:~# sg_vpd /dev/longhorn/testvol -p lbpv
Logical block provisioning VPD page (SBC):
  Unmap command supported (LBPU): 1
  Write same (16) with unmap bit supported (LBPWS): 1
  Write same (10) with unmap bit supported (LBPWS10): 1
  Logical block provisioning read zeros (LBPRZ): 1
  Anchored LBAs supported (ANC_SUP): 0
  Threshold exponent: 0 [threshold sets not supported]
  Descriptor present (DP): 0
  Minimum percentage: 0 [not reported]
  Provisioning type: 2 (thin provisioned)
  Threshold percentage: 0 [percentages not supported]
```

From old kernel perspective, it choose write_same over unmap which cause the problem. However, I am not sure how to modify LUN to disable advertising write_same capability. The only option I see it Thin-provisioning. When enable Thin-provisioning.

Reviewer: I think it is due to that longhorn doesn't return `-1` to the upper caller for the unsupported write_same operation.
https://github.com/rancher/tgt/blob/longhorn_oct2019/usr/bs_longhorn.c#L199

Author: I am not sure if changing the return value over there can disable advertising the `write_same` capability because in the older Longhorn version (< v1.4.0), we don't return -1 but Longhorn volume still does NOT advertise the `write_same` capability. 

It is when we change `Thin-provisioning` yo `true` in Longhorn > v1.4.0, both unmap and write_same capabilitie are advertised  

Opening a ticket for further investigation https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6876

both UNMAP and WRITE SAME capability as detailed in this kernel patch https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/bcd069bb250acf6088b60d189ab3ec3ae8dd11a5

### Troubleshooting steps

1. Double-check the engine image of the volume is >= `v1.4.0` in the volume detail page in Longhorn UI. Only engine
image >= `v1.4.0` supports filesystem trim feature.
1. If the volume's engine's image was recently live upgraded from a version < `v1.4.0` to >= `v1.4.0`, make sure that the

> volume is detached/reattached first to activate the trim feature in Longhorn volume. You can do this by manually scale

Reviewer 2: NIT: Do we need to separate this fstrim failure into 2 cases:
1. Engines are using old IM pod/engine image
2. The node kernel version

Author: Quick question, how the instance manager pod can affect trim?

Reviewer 2: For example, an old volume was running in a v1.3.x instance manager pod then got upgraded to engine image v1.4.x. In this case, the upgraded engine was still in the old IM pod, of which the tgt does not support `unmap`.

Author: I see. Good point. I separated into 2 cases

down and up the workload deployment that is using the volume. See more details at https://longhorn.io/docs/1.4.0/volumes-and-nodes/trim-filesystem/#prerequisites
1. After the above steps, try to run filesystem trim again to see if the problem still exists. If the problem still exists,
move on to the next case below.

#### Case 2: Old node kernel version
1. Find the node that the volume is currently attached to and ssh into that node
1. Find the major and minor of a Longhorn block device by `ls -l /dev/longhorn/<volume-name>`. For example:
    ```bash
    [root@phan-v147-cloudera-pool1-f1dec634-cm59v ~]# ls -l /dev/longhorn/testvol
    brw-rw----. 1 root root 8, 0 Oct  6 20:24 /dev/longhorn/testvol
    ```
    In this case the major:minor versions is `8:0`
1. Find the corresponding SCSI device's address by `lsscsi -d`. For example,
    ```bash
    [root@phan-v147-cloudera-pool1-f1dec634-cm59v ~]# lsscsi -d
    [3:0:0:0]    storage IET      Controller       0001  -
    [3:0:0:1]    disk    IET      VIRTUAL-DISK     0001  /dev/sda [8:0]
    ```
    In this case, the corresponding corresponding SCSI device's address is `[3:0:0:1]` because it also has major:minor versions as `8:0`

> 1. Find the provisioning mode of SCSI device by `find /sys/ -name provisioning_mode -exec grep -H . {} + | sort`. For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Identify the provisioning mode of the SCSI device using the command `find /sys/ -name provisioning_mode -exec grep -H . {} + | sort`. 

Example:
```

    ```bash
    [root@phan-v147-cloudera-pool1-f1dec634-cm59v ~]# find /sys/ -name provisioning_mode -exec grep -H . {} + | sort
    /sys/devices/platform/host3/session1/target3:0:0/3:0:0:1/scsi_disk/3:0:0:1/provisioning_mode:writesame_16
    ```
    In this case, looks at the device with the address `3:0:0:1`, it has provisioning mode as `writesame_16` (in some cases,
    it can be `disable`) but not the correct value `unmap`

> 1. Check the kernel version by `uname -r`. If the kernel version is < `v4.12`, you have hit this issue

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Identify the kernel version using the command `uname -r`. 
```

Reviewer 3: I moved the kernel version info to the next step.

> ### Solution
> 
> Upgrade the kernel to a recommended version as in the best practice page https://longhorn.io/docs/1.5.1/best-practices/#operating-system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. If the kernel version is earlier than `v4.12`, upgrade the kernel.
```

Reviewer 3: The solution is part of Case 2 so we can consider it the final step in that procedure.

> At the time when writing this article, the recommended kernel version is >= `v5.8`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At the time of writing, Longhorn recommends upgrading to `v5.8` or later. For more information about verified distributions and versions, see [Best Practices](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.5.1/best-practices/#operating-system).
```
